[Music]
this is the Abarth 500 it may look like
it's baby Fiat cousin but as the badge
suggests this 500 has a sting in its
tail the Abarth Lane became synonymous
with diminutive race tune Fiats in the
1950s and 60s so the aim here is to
recapture some of that competition
pedigree for the hottest version of
Fiats retro city car a punchy 1.42
turbocharged engine have been shoehorned
under the 500 on it and this is fed by
additional air intakes sculpted into the
deep front spoiler sporty side skirts a
link to a heavily revised rear bumper
which features vent to draw hot air away
from the brakes and twin tailpipes
mounted at either edge of the
aerodynamic diffuser the overall effect
is very striking indeed and the optional
17-inch alloys special paint and
go-faster stripes fitted to our test car
help make the Abarth 500 a real
head-turner but is it all show and no go
well if you just jump in and drive off
you might start to think something is
it's annoying gear shift indicator
telling you to change up to conserve
every last drop of fuel
but they near the small button
I start to get much more interesting
the sport button alters the engine's
power and torque delivery for sporty
responses while increasing load through
the steering for a sharper feel and more
precise cornering
the bar 516 valve turbo engine develops
135 brake horsepower with peak torque of
260 newton-meters
of sport mode compared to 180 Newton
meters in normal mode that translates
into a top speed of 128 miles per hour
with an order 62 - dispatched in just
seven point nine seconds
[Music]
the sporting intent continues in the
cabin one-piece ford seats keep you
firmly in place through the twisty bits
and the thick rimmed flat-bottom
steering wheel is complemented by a
chunky gear knob which falls nicely to
hand although the gear change itself is
not the slickest
[Music]
fruit space is on the small side and the
rear seats are cozy but the car's
compactness is also a major part of its
charm and you can always fold them flat
for more load lugging space there's a
lot of theater in sight because this car
is a distinctly different animal to the
regular 500 it may not be the sharpest
upon hatches
but the Abarth 500 charismatic character
makes it a worthy bearer of the sign of
the scorpion
you